After giving the critical feedback,
I mentioned the most positive outcome is
you've kind of had that hard conversation
and hopefully things are gonna get better.
I honestly think that, I mean,
letting someone go is a really
tough thing to do as a manager.
But I think the critical conversation
where people aren't meeting expectations
is absolutely the hardest thing.
But once you kinda set that level,
hopefully things get better.
What I like to do is make sure to
give the person time to reflect and
digest the feedback.
Sometimes they might need the day
to just kinda think it through.
And maybe you do a follow-up conversation
the next day or the following week.
But allowing people time to digest and
reflect can be really good.
They might be a little bit
defensive in the moment and so
you kinda wanna let
them sit with it a bit.
I really like to provide written feedback.
Maybe it's not right in the moment,
right after having the conversation.
It might be that next day or
something, but
I wanna emphasize to make
sure that it's clear and
that we're both hearing the same language
of what needs to be fixed or addressed.
Sometimes it hits harder in written
communication, where people are able
to be like whoa, this is critical,
this is really important to my job.
I also like to have
the person reflect on it and
almost actually outline a plan for
how they can start to meet expectations.
How are they gonna address
the problem that we've talked about?
And this is a good area,
too, for how can I help?
Cuz ultimately I'm on board with
helping this person get there.
We've kind of had that hard conversation,
now I wanna say, all right,
let's work through it.
And I think it's really helpful for
people to kinda think through
what's their plan moving forward.
Sometimes this can be scenarios
where they're like, yeah,
I don't wanna do anything differently.
And that might be a signal that it
might not be the right fit for them.
There's a lot that can come
in these conversations, but
having some sort of plan for
it is really great.
I know some companies have performance
improvement plans, PIT plans.
But if you don't have that,
it doesn't mean that you can't
kinda have some of these types
of conversations in place.
And that's, like I said,
that's where I'm asking, I'm a partner,
I wanna be supportive.
I'm not just here to crap on someone and
make them feel bad or
set those expectations.
I wanna be there to be a partner,
and how can I help?
It's on the person to fix and
address, but what can I do to help?
And I'm asking that question and
I'm like, okay.
And if I can't do something,
I'm gonna tell them too,
we're gonna have
conversations around that.
And then, I think this is really important
too, is provide ongoing feedback.
After a week or two of them working
to address it, how's it going?
Have check-ins.
Yeah, actually you're improving on this,
this is really good, or, hey, wow,
you're meeting expectations.
Now, how does that sustain?
But you wanna have
the ongoing conversations.
Whether it be just nudging some positive
reinforcement that, wow, this is good,
keep doing that,
this is exactly the behavior I wanna see.
But it gives people signals
in the right direction.
If things aren't improving, well,
prepare for what's next, right?
What are the next steps?
Do you have to continue
giving more feedback?
Is it maybe that this team's
not the right fit for them?
You have to think about
those things as a manager.
There's no set timeline in my mind.
There's probably some sort of timeline
you should be thinking about.
But it doesn't have to necessarily be,
in a week I need to see you do this.
But maybe you are thinking about that.